---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

# Week 5: Taking a closer look at open source projects and communities
hi! this is my week five blog post for Open Source Software Development!

## Project Evaluation Activity - OBS
For the project evaluation activity, Camillo and I were assigned to take a look at OBS - and opensource streaming + screen recording software. While its not much a surprise for such a commonly used software in the streaming space, I think one of the most notable things about it from a opensource standpoint was how large the community was - having (at the time we did the activity) 477 contributors total. Additionally, it looked to be incredibly active, many of the issues being replied to and even solved within the day if not hours. In that sense, I think a big positive to working on this project would obviously be how quickly a contributor can get in contact with others or ask for help. I also feel that the project does an excellent job at documenting everything - it was very easy to find there discord server, links on how to get involved etc. Inversely, I do find that such a large project also results in certain drawbacks - it certainly feels daunting to interact when there's so many people, and I imagine it'd be a challenge to familiarize yourself with other contributors when edits and comments are constantly being made by so many people. I do feel like its a feasible project for a first time developer to get into - as I mentioned previously the resources to familiarize oneself with the project and ways to contribute are all made rather accessible, and they even label issues that a beginner could start with - but with such a large, well established project, understanding the code in its entirety is rather infeasible, and while being able to add onto code without having to understand an entire project is an extremely crucial skill, I do feel like it'd be a hard one to learn while simultaneously getting the hang of coding alongside a group of people etc. That said, finding the perfect project that balances established enough that it's easy to follow and small enough that its not overwhelming might not be a reasonable thing to wait around looking for, and as I mentioned previously I do think it's feasible for a beginner to contribute to OBS, just perhaps a bit challenging.


## Thoughts on the short films
I found the first video (Opening the Loop. Autonomy, Access and Insulin) to be really interesting. A few months ago, my grandfather was diagnosed with diabetes, and while there's a language barrier between us and in general, his condition wasn't something my parents wanted to discuss at length, I know that none of us at the time were very familiar with the technology to monitor his blood sugar and it took awhile to figure out as well as help explain to him. The struggles brought up in the video, such as not being able to wake up to alarms about blood sugar, were things that I hadn't really considered as concerns based on my previous knowledge of diabetes, and seeing that people who had to face such concerns were able to establish a community and develop technologies which can help benefit their lives day to day is something I find really inspirational, as well as a great example of a situation where open source practices can have very strong advantages. 

Another video that stuck out to me were the ones on agriculture (Food Computer and Farming for the Future). Admittedly, that was in part because I'm actually from St. Louis and would often go to the STL Science Center as a kid. For obvious reasons I haven't gone recently, so if they added an exibition concerning using technology in combination with agriculture its not something I've seen, but seeing a place I recognized in one of the projects did kind of make the whole project seem more tangible if that makes sense - it sounds a little silly but alot of the projects we've taken a look at are really professional looking and quite frankly, really daunting for a student like me to feel qualified to contribute on, it was a relief recognizing a place where they're working on one of these projects, as well as just seeing the motivations/work processes of the people behind each of these projects and seeing that many of the people who started them were people who had experienced an issue firsthand and simply just wanted to create something that'd help work towards a solution. Past that, my vision of farming was certainly something similar to that illustrated at the beginning of farming for the future. So seeing the ways people were innovating agriculture through use of technology like in food computer was a really fascinating viewpoint I wasn't aware of previously.
