---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
# Week 1: I'll title this after I finish writing
hi! this is my week one blog post for Open Source Software Development :)

## Thoughts Open Source
I hope it's not too tangential, but the first thing my mind actually goes to when thinking of open source is an old discord server I helped with that ran Splatoon events. We had quite a few different teams with mascots for each one, and at some point the idea of backstories for each of them came up. There was quite alot of back and forth about who got to handle what for all the characters and general concern on creating a story we wouldn't have to change later on as the server grew and more teams were added and finally one of the people in the call suggested we make the mascots open source. They were already halfway there because almost everyone on the staff team (and even members of the server) helped design them so it couldn't really be said who owned them or had say over the design and story of each character, so having all of them be open source as suggested allowed every person to work on stories art etc. as we liked without having to make sure every person in the group agreed on that interpretation of said character. 
After our discussion in class I don't know if we had exactly the right idea on how open source worked, we certainly weren't doing any liscencing work to ensure anyone could have rights to those mascots and use them as they please, but thinking on it I suppose it's still a good example of an instance in where having something be open source would be preferable.

## Advantages and Disadvantages of Open Source
I suppose one advantage would be like I mentioned previously - in a project where multiple people possess ownership over it, making it open source would allow everyone to use it as they please without running into an issue of disagreeing with another's interpretation/modification. Additionally, as mentioned with the electric car example in class, it opens the project up to (potentially) progress much faster. 
While this isn't an inherent disadvantage, under different circumstances I feel like our choice to just allow people to use characters as they please could have ended rather poorly. Since they were just mascots and ultimately everything we were doing was just for fun, allowing people to use the characters however worked perfectly. However, if it was for example a Disney character or whatnot, obviously they wouldn't want their characters to be opensource at risk that they might be represented in a bad light etc.

## Why OSSD
While I'm a game design major, I'm not particularly experienced with the coding side of things. But I really enjoy collaborative work, and wanted to take a class where I'd have a chance to do more coding work but in a similar environment to that which we tend to have in our design classes.

## Open Source Projects
It'd be hard to pick favorites, but here are some open source projects which I find really interesting/often make use of:
* Wikipedia | [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page)
    An online encyclopedia
    I know this is a bit of an easy one, but it really is incredible how much information is accessible via wikipedia, it's certainly a good example of the strengths of open source in that sense.
* OBS Studio | [OBS](https://obsproject.com/)
    A software used for streaming.
    I've always used OBS when streaming, but admittedly I hadn't realized it was open source till I learned of streamlabs relation to it (that being it uses obs' code).
* Open Utau | [OpenUtau](https://github.com/stakira/OpenUtau)
    An open source project designed to be a modern version of UTAU, a voice sythesizer software from 2013. 
    This was actually one I heard of recently but find very interesting. I remember trying to use utau back in highschool but haven't thought much of it since. I'm really interested in how a redesign of the older software could turn out.
* osu! | [osu!](https://osu.ppy.sh/home)
    A rhythm game and editor which allows anyone to upload and map songs for others to play.
    I admittedly had no idea osu! was open source up until well... a couple hours ago when I was talking to my friend about how I'm taking a class about open source but I suppose with it's community it certainly lines up - even in game so much of it consists of passing around beatmaps etc and collaborating to create new packs for others to play.