---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

# Week 3: Thoughts on our first project
hi! this is my week three blog post for Open Source Software Development!

## Struggles with our first project
I think one thing in particular that comes to mind is the fact that I have very limited knowledge of css and almost none for js - so when we were first working on our extension, I struggled to work at the same pace as my collaborators. Later in the project, it was a bit less of an issue because we were able to each work on seperate tasks so I could take as long as needed to figure out, but when we first started all three of us were just working on make the base for a timer simultaneously, so I felt that I couldn't contribute as much as I would've liked, since it was just a matter of who could get it working first.

While this wasn't as bad of an issue, we did also overscope our project initially. We had planned to create a timer that would block websites, but I think we hadn't considered how long it would take to get a timer working to begin with. However, it wasn't too much of a struggle to rescope our project - when we sat down to work on it, we decided to start by making the most simple timer possible then branching out from there, so the adjustments came about pretty naturally

## Things that went well
I guess the flipside of not knowing css or js well is that I'm relieved I'm getting a little more used to it with a project like this that's much easier to comprehend than say, a random larger opensource project that's been worked on for a long time. Additionally, I haven't produced much code with more real life application, so it was really fun to come up with potential extensions we could do. 

## What I would change
I do wish I was a bit better with communicating - I was unfortunately out sick during the Thursday class. While I did contact my group later that day, I said I would do as much as I could that night because I felt bad about not saying anything earlier. I thought I would have felt better by then, but it ended up getting worse and I wasn't able to complete what I said I could until the next night. If I could do it again, I would've just been honest with what happened and let them know it'd get done ASAP rather than making promises I couldn't keep to try and circumvent my mistakes.

As far as things I would want to change if we were able to continue the project, I think I'd want to maybe mess with the css or maybe give additional customization, and then try to add in the website blocking function.


