---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

# Week 7: The Cathedral and the Bazaar, and thoughts going into our final project
Hi! This is my week seven blog post for Open Source Software Development!

## Thoughts on this week's discussion
This week we primarily discussed Eric S. Raymond's *The Cathedral and the Bazaar*. I really enjoyed being able to hear about everyone else's thoughts on the reading as well as experiences working in cs in general, especially considering most CS classes (that I've experienced at least) are straight lecture so I don't often converse with my classmates. 
While going into this class I was really worried about my coding proficiency in comparison to my classmates (and quite frankly, still am), alot of the topics that were brought up made me realize how much experience in project management the Game Center, as well as my hobbies in general gave me. Of course many of the topics in the reading were applicable to things outside of CS, but a large part of what they teach us in game design is generally how to plan a project, properly scope it, and be able to iterate on it repeatedly till we have a presentable product; as well as how to work with a group in general. The way which many of the fundamental teachings at the Game Center lined up with the reading really helped me realize the importance of project and community management within open source (as well as collaborative cs projects in general). In a department which (unsurprisingly) focuses on coding alone, I really enjoyed how much of the discussion was around the logistics of an actual coding *project* rather than just writing the code. One discussion I feel ties back to this rather strongly was when (I believe) Neev brought up the idea of some sort of mandatory marketing class for CS majors. I know somebody mentioned that those sort of topics aren't for everyone and many people want to do code and code alone. While I'm in agreement with that sentiment, I do wish there was at least more collaborative work within the department. Naturally I don't think it needs to be to the extent of the Game Center which at its core is just how to successful run a project, but many of the mandatory classes are individual assignments, and those which aren't tend to be short exersizes which don't really require students to plan and properly divide up work. But, while I can't speak for everyone because as a minor, I had a smaller amount of mandatory courses, I wish there was a bit more emphasis on how to plan out projects and work with others to code earlier on. That being said, it looks like many of the later courses do eventually have students work on larger, collaborative projects and I imagine trying to deal with source control while learning something like data structures could only be pain, so perhaps its not discussed in intro classes because there's already so much information students have to learn

Another discussion I found particularly interesting was whether a cathedral or bazaar system is better overall. Naturally I've learned alot more about the general benefits bazaar systems have over the course of this class, but I can also see reasons why come situations might better suit a cathedral system as well. One thing that came to mind was the previous discussion of how some companies may not want to 'release early and release often' in concerns to losing credibility. Unfortunately not each consumer is going to be involved in every project they come across and if they aren't they might not want to see its a work in progress and the whole process but just know that there are qualified people working on it and its working well.  

## Final Project
As I mentioned previously, Project Management is something that I both have to practice often as a Game Center student, but also love to do in general. From things like event planning or tournament organization to simply working on more complex artworks, planning and managing projects is something I've always enjoyed doing but never considered much of an actual skill. But being a senior the topic of interests and what sort of work we want to do often comes up, and my roommate said that having worked with me on multiple occassions, it's something I tend to do rather naturally; and that it's something that does add inherent value to a team. While it's not my only skill, I hope I can keep helping the groups I work with by planning and organizing our projects and communicating with all the members to ensure we're on track. 
As for what projects I'd like to contribute to, I'd love to work on Pokemon Showdown or sendou.ink as they're projects I'm rather familiar with and concern topics I'm rather passionate about. Similarly, Blender, Musescore, Audacity, obs, react wordle, and python arcade, seem really interesting, but I'm certainly less knowledgable on 3d modeling, video and audio editing, and the topics of the projects in general. 
Past being able to work on new projects and hopefully apply my skills as an artist where possible, my goals and concerns sort of align - while I know a good amount of code I've never been the coder in any group I've been in - I've done work writing scripts as needed but if something broke in the git I wasn't really the one people would turn to in order to fix it nor did often do the bulk of the coding work. I hope that working on a primarily CS project, I'll gain more experience working on code with multiple people and hopefully, will be more confident handling source control and code work in general by the end of it.




