---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

# Week 8: Our final project begins and Tom Callaway talk.
Hi! This is my week eight blog post for Open Source Software Development!

## Final Project: Starting out
This week we were given our groups for our final project! I'm working with Philip Park and Camilo Villavicencio. There were a couple different projects we were interested in, primarily those relating to games such as Pokemon Showdown, Ruffle.rs and Sendou.ink, but we eventually narrowed it down to OBS and Blender as those were both projects made primarily in languages we were rather comfortable with as well as being run by very active, well established communities. It was a bit of a challenge deciding which of the two to go with, but after a bit of discussion we eventually settled on Blender since it seemed like all 3 of us had a good level of familiarity with the software and an interest in working on it. Past that, we decided on a meeting date as well as laid out our first tasks. Since we're just starting out we left things rather simple for this week - each of us want the source code downloaded and running, as well as to introduce ourselves in the blender developer chatrooms. 
I feel the main challenge that will come with working on Blender is the fact its software posesses alot of more complex features that we'd have to take time to understand before figuring out where an issue's happening. Additionally, I believe it's the first time for all 3 of us to work on such a large project, so there's also the general challenge that comes with understanding what's necessary in such a large body of code and being able to locate an issue past that. Regardless, I'm very excited to work together on this!
  

## Tom Callaway talk
I found it really interesting to see a firsthand example of how opensource practices can be used in situations where there's a profit concern. I mentioned it previously but before this class, most of the examples of opensource that I knew were projects done by hobbyists who just wanted to make something cool together. I didn't consider that the inherent benefits of opensource were strong enough that there are situations where companies might prefer it to alternative methods. This talk, as well as the class in general has taught me alot about how prevalent open source practices are within the world.
One thing in particular that stuck out to me was his mention of how a more common issue that he runs into is people's hesitance to accept help from Amazon in developing their projects. While at first glance that seems rather unreasonable I do see how it could come about considering how opensource functions. I've mentioned it previously, but I certainly feel that one of the strongest aspects of the practice is the fact that it makes it far easier for the users of any project to not only provide feedback but contribute to solving the problems they face themselves. That acessibility generally allows for a more personalized project overall and having a large company come in and start influencing the direction of said project does detract from that. Even if the intention on Amazon's side is to do the more tedious work as opposed to take over, I certainly could understand where a hesitance to accept help would come from. Nevertheless, I do find it very admirable that Callaway wants to use such a large company like Amazon to do "good" within opensource communities.




