---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

# Week 9: Time to start finals! (again again)
Hi! This is my week nine blog post for Open Source Software Development! :)

## Progress on final
Unfortunately we had a bit of trouble working this week because the day before workshop, I was notified that my roommate was in contact with someone with covid, and until she got tested wanted to self quarantine to be safe. However, we did manage to accomplish our goals from last week! Introducing ourselves wasn't much trouble, although I admit it was a little daunting to do so with such a large amount of people in their chatrooms. The biggest issue we ran into was getting the source code running as well as sorting out how we want to handle source control. While downloading the code itself wasn't too much trouble getting it to build proved to be a tad challenging due to the code needing a couple different softwares to build. I know I ran into an issue the first few times I tried to do so but thankfully Camillo had the same problems and was able to walk me through it. One issue I hadn't forseen in setting up is that unsurprisingly, blender takes up quite alot of space (about 13 GB). This wouldn't be too large a problem but all 3 of us only have laptops and, while we found a github mirror of blender, some of us don't have to space to store both the version using blender's git and the the github version on top of that. Thankfully only one of us need to have both of them, but we're trying to see if it'll be okay to keep the project files on an external hardrive so we can all access both. Besides setup, we also began to take a look at potential issues we can solve. It does look like a few of the open issues already have solutions and simply haven't been reviewed, but we found one that looks like it should be good to work on and plan to start looking over it this coming week.

## Midterm
For our midterm we had to fill out reflections on our thoughts about open source and its effects in different departments (ie. why a nonprofit might use it). Alot of the things discussed were things I've mentioned quite alot in my previous blog posts so I don't want to sound too redundant, but I do feel this class has really shown me just how prevalant open source practices are within the world, and just how strong it is. I'm really glad I'm able to take this class not only to learn learn about open source, but because it's the first CS class I've taken that's so collaborative. I really enjoy the more discussion based lessons we have in comparison to the more typical lectures!




