---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

# Week 4: Open Source Browser Extensions
hi! this is my week four blog post for Open Source Software Development!

## Working on our first open source project
I've discussed a bit in my previous blog post, but it was really fun to be able to work on a piece of code that I'd actually be able to use on a daily basis - I know a classmate mentioned how they find it cool that what they made is something they could show their parents, and not only would they understand it's function but be able to use it as well, and I certainly feel the same. I think this is my first coding assignment I've done where we were able to what we wanted it to do and brainstorming ideas was alot of fun. In terms of it being an open source project, while I understand we don't really get the full experience of interacting with a community and learning how to work with strangers, I'm glad we were able to first learn how to set one up without having to worry about running into conflicts with someone we weren't able to discuss with rather easily.

## Team 5's work process
I feel that as a group, we didn't run into too many issues, though I imagine that was in large part because this was a more managable project. We were able to meetup outside of class, get an extension working, then divide the work up amongst ourselves for adding additional polish. The only thing that would have been nice is our group was pretty quiet the whole time. This isn't a complaint by any means, a group doesn't have to be good friends to have a good work dynamic, but I do feel that being more comfortable talking with eachother would've been good should one of us have wanted to bounce ideas off the others or things like that. Additionally, we used our team 5 log as a group chat at points, but that was more of a misunderstanding than a hard issue to solve. Ultimately, our project went rather smoothly! I'm really happy to have worked with Evelyn and Karina.

## My personal experience
As for my work on the project, I do admit that it was rather daunting working with the rest of my group as it appeared I knew the least JS/CSS by a considerable margin. While I knew enough I could've eventually made what our extension set out to do, it took me alot longer than the others to figure out what was going on in the base code and modify it, so especially at the start when we were all working in tandem to figure out how to make a base timer, I felt like I couldn't make as many contributions as I would've liked as a result of me just figuring out how to get one to work long after they did. While I was able to make more significant contributions when we were working individually, I do wish I could've done more code work as alot of what I did was more in concerns to formatting/visuals (drawing the logo, going back and renaming all the old variables since we modified the beastified code, making our presentation, etc.). While I suppose these are still valid contributions, I do want to become more adept at coding so I'm able to make coding contributions alongside my collaborators. 

## Thoughts on other's projects
I really enjoyed seeing other's projects! It looks like alot of the groups had alot of fun when they were developing their extensions and it really showed when they were presenting it. For that reason, I think I really enjoyed the youtube and confetti extensions in particular. If I were to name one I'm particularly interested in working on/using, I'd say the Focisify extension as I often use Instagram to share my work, but have a bad habit of scrolling though all the suggested content without thinking much of it. I'll often just delete the app when I don't need to be in contact with friends/those interested in commissions, but if there was a way to just block off the features that would result in me wasting time scrolling, it'd be really nice to use. 

