---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

# Week 6: Open Source Browser Extensions
hi! this is my week five blog post for Open Source Software Development! It's currently unfinished, but I've put the prompts here for easier editing later this week.

reflect on Chrispher Snider presentation
reflect on the role that open efforts play in communities

## Thoughts on this week's talk
This week's speaker was Christopher Snider - the community and clinic success manager at Tidepool, a non profit which aims to provide easily accessible, free to use software to those with diabetes. I mentioned a bit in my previous blog, but my grandfather was very recently diagnosed with diabetes, and while he's in generally good health for his age, it was a rather large shock at the time as he had to go to the emergency room due to his high blood sugar. He has a monitor that allows him to consistently check his blood sugar, but I know it's something he's struggled to learn, especially with the language barrier; and my mom and uncle often have to visit him to help him adjust. While it's not directly related to his experience, it was somewhat reassuring as well as really inspiring to see how people with similar struggles were able to take matters into their own hands, and are working to provide resources to the community as a whole. Similarly, I found his comments on how diabetes affects his daily life particularly interesting. Because I don't know Cantonese, I don't often get to talk with my grandfather, and don't really know much besides basic knowledge on diabetes. Hearing about someone's firsthand gave a perspective that I don't think I would've understood as well otherwise, and I was glad to have the insight to better understand what my grandfather's currently dealing with.

I feel one of the biggest things I took away from this week's talk was seeing a real life example of how strongly open source is benefitted by community, and how in turn it can benefit a community - allowing an open source project, even as a non profit, to stay afloat. It was interesting to see how that works logistically, because while I know a good amount of open source projects, I'm admittedly not as knowledgeable on how any of them are funded. While it makes sense seeing it in practice, it never occurred to me that such transparency, in healthcare no less, could provide overall benefits. Additionally, while there is obviously software development work within Tidepool, I liked seeing the different roles outside of programming that can go into creating an open source project.

## Open Source in Communities
Similar to what I mentioned previously, I think this week's talk, as well as many of the videos we watched previously were very strong examples of how one of the strongest advantages to open source projects is the community. Both in how a community is able to easily interact and contribute to open source projects, and how said projects are ultimately more beneficial to the community as a whole. While I don't intend to sound pessimistic or selfish in saying this, it's... generally pretty hard to get people to go out of their way and do additional work, and while I'm sure there are people who work on these projects wholly out of the good of their hearts, I feel that the general accesibility of the open source projects we've taken a look at as well as the features that can be implemented when those developing the project are the same community of people who will be using it, is an incentive of its own to support and contribute to such projects. 




